docs/handlebars.md, before:

# Handlebars

Handlebars help you add character to your response. Instead of sending a static response or writing some code to generate a dynamic response, you can now simply use handlebars and let Camouflage do the work for you.

## Custom Helpers

## randomValue

Type: Custom Helper

Usage:

1. **{{randomValue}}** - Simply using randomValue will generate a 16 character alphanumeric string. ex: _9ZeBvHW5viiYuWRa_.
2. **{{randomValue type='ALPHANUMERIC'}}** - You can specify a type as well. Your choices are: 'ALPHANUMERIC', 'ALPHABETIC', 'NUMERIC' and 'UUID'.
3. **{{randomValue type='NUMERIC' length=10}}** - Don't want a 16 character output? Use length to specify the length.
4. **{{randomValue type='ALPHABETIC' uppercase=true}}** - Finally, specify uppercase as true to get a, well, uppercase string.

## now

Type: Custom Helper

Usage:

1. **{{now}}** - Simply using now will give you date in format _YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss_
2. **{{now format='MM/DD/YYYY'}}** - Format not to your liking? Use any format you'd like as long as it is supported by momentjs.
3. **{{now format='epoch'}}** - Time since epoch in milliseconds
4. **{{now format='unix'}}** - Time since epoch in seconds
5. **{{now format='MM/DD/YYYY hh:mm:ss' offset='-10 days'}}** - Use offset specify the delta for your desired date from current date.

Units for specifying offset are

| Key          | Shorthand |
| :----------- | :-------: |
| years        |     y     |
| quarters     |     q     |
| months       |     M     |
| weeks        |     w     |
| days         |     d     |
| hours        |     h     |
| minutes      |     m     |
| seconds      |     s     |
| milliseconds |    ms     |

## capture

Type: Custom Helper

Usage:

1. **{{capture from='query' key='firstName'}}** - Pretty self-explanatory, but if say your endpoint looks like /hello-world?firstName=John&lastName=Wick. And your response is {"message": "Hello Wick, John"}, you can make the response dynamic by formatting your response as

```
{
    "message": "{{capture from='query' key='lastName'}}, {{capture from='query' key='firstName'}}"
}
```

2. **{{capture from='path' regex='\/users\/get\/(.*)?'}}** - For path, you'd need to specify a regex to capture a value.
3. **{{capture from='body' using='jsonpath' selector='$.lastName'}}** - To capture values from request body, your options are either using='regex' or using='jsonpath'. Selector will change accordingly.

## num_between

Type: Custom Helper

Usage:

1. **{{num_between lower=500 upper=600}}**: Generate a number between two values. Example: you can add this value in your response header with a key Response-Delay, to simulate a latency in your API. Not providing lower/upper value or providing values where lower > upper would set delay to 0, i.e. won't have any effect. Check **Response Delays** page for a detailed example

## code

Type: Custom Helper

Usage: Camouflage's implementation of Handlebars is robust enough to handle most dynamic responses i.e. capturing data from request, generating random numbers, as shown in examples above. However, if your requirement still cannot be fulfilled by Camouflage's helpers, you can write a custom code in javascript to achieve the same results. Refer to the example mock and explanation below:

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json

{{#code}}
(()=>{
    function getRandomNumberInRange(min, max) {
        return Math.round(Math.random() * (max - min) + min);
    }
    const name = request.query.name;
    const phone = getRandomNumberInRange(1000000000, 9999999999)
    logger.info(phone);
    return {
        status: 201,
        headers: {
            'X-Requested-By': name
        },
        body: `{
            "greeting": "Hello ${name}",
            "phone": ${phone}
        }`
    };
})();
{{/code}}
```

- `HTTP/1.1 200 OK`: We start by creating a GET.mock as usual (or any ${VERB}.mock as per your requirement), where 1st line of your file denotes protocol, version, status code and status message. This can be overridden from the code, however it is mandatory, in order to maintain a generic structure of mock files.
- Next you will provide a set of static headers, which will not change irrespective of your code logic. If you expect the header value to be dynamic, you don't need to provide them here.
- An empty line to mark the start of body.
- Lastly, the most important part of your mock file. In place of the body, you write your code inside the code helper block provided by Camouflage. There are some restriction though, read further.
- Code helper block can be defined by using `{{#code}}...{{/code}}`.
- The code you write has to be encapsulated in an IIFE, i.e. Immediately Invoked Function Expression, which can be done by wrapping your code in `(() => { //your code here })();`
- As you might have noticed, we have defined the IIFE as an arrow function, this too is mandatory, since this provides you access to `request` and `logger` object without having to bind `this` to the code's context. If that sounds complicated, all you need to understand is using an arrow function provides you access to `request` and `logger` objects.
- Rest is just vanilla javascript code.
    * Define a function to generate random numbers,
    * Fetch the name from a request query parameter: `name`.
    * Execute the random number function and store the return value in a phone variable.
    * Log the generated phone number.
    * Now comes the most important part. Your IIFE should return a JSON object, containing 3 keys
        - `status`: An integer value (Optional)
        - `headers`: A JSON object with keys as header name and values as header values. (Optional if you don't have any dynamic headers)
        - `body`: A string (Required.)
    * In this example, we have provided a static status code of 200.
    * We have one header `X-Requested-By`, whose value is dynamic and changes based on the value user provided in name query parameter while calling the mock endpoint.
    * Finally, we have stringified JSON object as body, where we are using `name` and `phone` as dynamic values.
- Please note that the same response can be easily achieved by other helpers also, and you don't necessarily need to write a code. This example was just to show you how we can use the code helper. Which is to say that you should avoid writing code if you don't have to, however if you abosolutely have to write a code, you have an option to do that.

## inject

Type: Custom Helper

Usage: Another use case for custom code could be when you don't want to write a code for entire response generation, but there are some parts of your response that need a custom code. Using `inject` helper you can use Camouflage's helpers and your custom code both together. Implementation remains similar to `code` helper, refer to the example below.

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "phone": {{#inject}}(()=>{ return Math.round(Math.random() * 10000000000); })();{{/inject}}
}
```

## Inbuilt Helpers

!!! note

    A variety of helpers are made available by Handlebar.js itself and Camouflage team had nothing to do with those, and we don't take credit for it. Following example just showcases how the inbuilt helpers can be used with Camouflage, more details and examples can be found just about anywhere on the internet. As far as inbuilt helpers are concerned, you can use any of them as long as it makes sense to you.

Raw HTML Request:

```
POST /users HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "firstName": "Robert",
    "lastName": "Downey",
    "nicknames": [
        {
            "nickname": "Bob"
        },
        {
            "nickname": "Rob"
        }
    ]
}
```

Expected Raw HTML Response:

```
HTTP/1.1 201 OK
X-Requested-By: user-service
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "status": 201,
    "message": "User created with ID: f45a3d2d-8dfb-4fc6-a0b2-c94882cd5b91",
    "data": [
        {
            "nickname": "Bob"
        },
        {
            "nickname": "Rob"
        }
    ]
}
```

1. To create this service in camouflage, create a directory users under your ${MOCKS_DIR}. i.e. ${MOCKS_DIR}/users
2. Create a file POST.mock and add following content to the file

```
HTTP/1.1 201 OK
X-Requested-By: user-service
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "status": 201,
    "message": "User created with ID: {{randomValue type='UUID'}}",
    "data": [
        {{#each request_body.nicknames}}
            {{#if @last}}
                {
                    "nickname": "{{this.nickname}}"
                }
            {{else}}
                {
                    "nickname": "{{this.nickname}}"
                },
            {{/if}}
        {{/each}}
    ]
}
```

Explanation

1. We replaced the static UUID `f45a3d2d-8dfb-4fc6-a0b2-c94882cd5b91` with `{{randomValue type='UUID'}}`, so that this value updates on each request.
2. We wrapped our JSONObject inside **data** array with an **each** helper which iterates over **nicknames** array from request body.
3. Finally we put an if condition to check if we are at the last element of the array, we shouldn't append a comma at the end of our JSONObject, in order to get a valid JSON. If we are at any other element in the array, we'll add a comma to JSONObject.

Available inbuilt helpers are `if`, `unless`, `each`, `with`, `lookup` and `log`. More details are available at [Handlebars Documentation](https://handlebarsjs.com/guide/builtin-helpers.html){target=\_blank}

Commit message:

docs: Update docs for csv helper

docs/handlebars.md, after:

# Handlebars

Handlebars help you add character to your response. Instead of sending a static response or writing some code to generate a dynamic response, you can now simply use handlebars and let Camouflage do the work for you.

## Custom Helpers

## randomValue

Type: Custom Helper

Usage:

1. **{{randomValue}}** - Simply using randomValue will generate a 16 character alphanumeric string. ex: _9ZeBvHW5viiYuWRa_.
2. **{{randomValue type='ALPHANUMERIC'}}** - You can specify a type as well. Your choices are: 'ALPHANUMERIC', 'ALPHABETIC', 'NUMERIC' and 'UUID'.
3. **{{randomValue type='NUMERIC' length=10}}** - Don't want a 16 character output? Use length to specify the length.
4. **{{randomValue type='ALPHABETIC' uppercase=true}}** - Finally, specify uppercase as true to get a, well, uppercase string.

## now

Type: Custom Helper

Usage:

1. **{{now}}** - Simply using now will give you date in format _YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss_
2. **{{now format='MM/DD/YYYY'}}** - Format not to your liking? Use any format you'd like as long as it is supported by momentjs.
3. **{{now format='epoch'}}** - Time since epoch in milliseconds
4. **{{now format='unix'}}** - Time since epoch in seconds
5. **{{now format='MM/DD/YYYY hh:mm:ss' offset='-10 days'}}** - Use offset specify the delta for your desired date from current date.

Units for specifying offset are

| Key          | Shorthand |
| :----------- | :-------: |
| years        |     y     |
| quarters     |     q     |
| months       |     M     |
| weeks        |     w     |
| days         |     d     |
| hours        |     h     |
| minutes      |     m     |
| seconds      |     s     |
| milliseconds |    ms     |

## capture

Type: Custom Helper

Usage:

1. **{{capture from='query' key='firstName'}}** - Pretty self-explanatory, but if say your endpoint looks like /hello-world?firstName=John&lastName=Wick. And your response is {"message": "Hello Wick, John"}, you can make the response dynamic by formatting your response as

```
{
    "message": "{{capture from='query' key='lastName'}}, {{capture from='query' key='firstName'}}"
}
```

2. **{{capture from='path' regex='\/users\/get\/(.*)?'}}** - For path, you'd need to specify a regex to capture a value.
3. **{{capture from='body' using='jsonpath' selector='$.lastName'}}** - To capture values from request body, your options are either using='regex' or using='jsonpath'. Selector will change accordingly.

## num_between

Type: Custom Helper

Usage:

1. **{{num_between lower=500 upper=600}}**: Generate a number between two values. Example: you can add this value in your response header with a key Response-Delay, to simulate a latency in your API. Not providing lower/upper value or providing values where lower > upper would set delay to 0, i.e. won't have any effect. Check **Response Delays** page for a detailed example

## code

Type: Custom Helper

Usage: Camouflage's implementation of Handlebars is robust enough to handle most dynamic responses i.e. capturing data from request, generating random numbers, as shown in examples above. However, if your requirement still cannot be fulfilled by Camouflage's helpers, you can write a custom code in javascript to achieve the same results. Refer to the example mock and explanation below:

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json

{{#code}}
(()=>{
    function getRandomNumberInRange(min, max) {
        return Math.round(Math.random() * (max - min) + min);
    }
    const name = request.query.name;
    const phone = getRandomNumberInRange(1000000000, 9999999999)
    logger.info(phone);
    return {
        status: 201,
        headers: {
            'X-Requested-By': name
        },
        body: `{
            "greeting": "Hello ${name}",
            "phone": ${phone}
        }`
    };
})();
{{/code}}
```

- `HTTP/1.1 200 OK`: We start by creating a GET.mock as usual (or any ${VERB}.mock as per your requirement), where 1st line of your file denotes protocol, version, status code and status message. This can be overridden from the code, however it is mandatory, in order to maintain a generic structure of mock files.
- Next you will provide a set of static headers, which will not change irrespective of your code logic. If you expect the header value to be dynamic, you don't need to provide them here.
- An empty line to mark the start of body.
- Lastly, the most important part of your mock file. In place of the body, you write your code inside the code helper block provided by Camouflage. There are some restriction though, read further.
- Code helper block can be defined by using `{{#code}}...{{/code}}`.
- The code you write has to be encapsulated in an IIFE, i.e. Immediately Invoked Function Expression, which can be done by wrapping your code in `(() => { //your code here })();`
- As you might have noticed, we have defined the IIFE as an arrow function, this too is mandatory, since this provides you access to `request` and `logger` object without having to bind `this` to the code's context. If that sounds complicated, all you need to understand is using an arrow function provides you access to `request` and `logger` objects.
- Rest is just vanilla javascript code.
    * Define a function to generate random numbers,
    * Fetch the name from a request query parameter: `name`.
    * Execute the random number function and store the return value in a phone variable.
    * Log the generated phone number.
    * Now comes the most important part. Your IIFE should return a JSON object, containing 3 keys
        - `status`: An integer value (Optional)
        - `headers`: A JSON object with keys as header name and values as header values. (Optional if you don't have any dynamic headers)
        - `body`: A string (Required.)
    * In this example, we have provided a static status code of 200.
    * We have one header `X-Requested-By`, whose value is dynamic and changes based on the value user provided in name query parameter while calling the mock endpoint.
    * Finally, we have stringified JSON object as body, where we are using `name` and `phone` as dynamic values.
- Please note that the same response can be easily achieved by other helpers also, and you don't necessarily need to write a code. This example was just to show you how we can use the code helper. Which is to say that you should avoid writing code if you don't have to, however if you abosolutely have to write a code, you have an option to do that.

## inject

Type: Custom Helper

Usage: Another use case for custom code could be when you don't want to write a code for entire response generation, but there are some parts of your response that need a custom code. Using `inject` helper you can use Camouflage's helpers and your custom code both together. Implementation remains similar to `code` helper, refer to the example below.

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "phone": {{#inject}}(()=>{ return Math.round(Math.random() * 10000000000); })();{{/inject}}
}
```

## csv

Type: Custom Helper

Usage: CSV Helper allows you to provide a data source as an input along with two combinations of policies
- With a key and value: In this case the helper will return a response specific to a given key and value
- Random: In this case, helper will pick one row from the provided csv and formulate the response for the provided row

For more details on how to use csv helper, refer to CSV Data Source page.

## Inbuilt Helpers

!!! note

    A variety of helpers are made available by Handlebar.js itself and Camouflage team had nothing to do with those, and we don't take credit for it. Following example just showcases how the inbuilt helpers can be used with Camouflage, more details and examples can be found just about anywhere on the internet. As far as inbuilt helpers are concerned, you can use any of them as long as it makes sense to you.

Raw HTML Request:

```
POST /users HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "firstName": "Robert",
    "lastName": "Downey",
    "nicknames": [
        {
            "nickname": "Bob"
        },
        {
            "nickname": "Rob"
        }
    ]
}
```

Expected Raw HTML Response:

```
HTTP/1.1 201 OK
X-Requested-By: user-service
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "status": 201,
    "message": "User created with ID: f45a3d2d-8dfb-4fc6-a0b2-c94882cd5b91",
    "data": [
        {
            "nickname": "Bob"
        },
        {
            "nickname": "Rob"
        }
    ]
}
```

1. To create this service in camouflage, create a directory users under your ${MOCKS_DIR}. i.e. ${MOCKS_DIR}/users
2. Create a file POST.mock and add following content to the file

```
HTTP/1.1 201 OK
X-Requested-By: user-service
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "status": 201,
    "message": "User created with ID: {{randomValue type='UUID'}}",
    "data": [
        {{#each request_body.nicknames}}
            {{#if @last}}
                {
                    "nickname": "{{this.nickname}}"
                }
            {{else}}
                {
                    "nickname": "{{this.nickname}}"
                },
            {{/if}}
        {{/each}}
    ]
}
```

Explanation

1. We replaced the static UUID `f45a3d2d-8dfb-4fc6-a0b2-c94882cd5b91` with `{{randomValue type='UUID'}}`, so that this value updates on each request.
2. We wrapped our JSONObject inside **data** array with an **each** helper which iterates over **nicknames** array from request body.
3. Finally we put an if condition to check if we are at the last element of the array, we shouldn't append a comma at the end of our JSONObject, in order to get a valid JSON. If we are at any other element in the array, we'll add a comma to JSONObject.

Available inbuilt helpers are `if`, `unless`, `each`, `with`, `lookup` and `log`. More details are available at [Handlebars Documentation](https://handlebarsjs.com/guide/builtin-helpers.html){target=\_blank}
